maintenance/README.md, before:

## Purpose

This directory contains the tools necessary to:

* Create release branches
* Tag a set of release branches
* Maintain master by cherry-picking from the dev branch

It does this by containing two repo manifests of all the repositories to be maintained in MBL and using the repo tool to check them out and act on them:

* `maintenance.xml` - for the master maintenance (only on master)
* `release.xml` - for the development branch or release branches

It also contains some helper scripts in `scripts`.

Note: Some of the repositories may not be public at this time, as this process is for internal usage at this time.

### Sections

* [Maintenance Directions](#maintenance)
* [Release Directions](#release)
* [Development Branches Directions](#development)

<a name="maintenance"/>

## Maintenance Directions

Performing a merge of all commits needed from the dev branch into master.

### Set up a maintenance area

Can be done once as a place just to perform all maintenance jobs.

```
mkdir MAINTENANCE
cd MAINTENANCE
# Get the tools on the dev branch - assumed to be the latest versions
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools -b <dev-branch>
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
```

### Start a maintenance job

Set up a new checkout of all the repos we need to maintain, and create a branch for doing the merging.

```
# Get latest tools
cd MAINTENANCE/mbl-tools
git pull
cd ..

# Set up new maintenance repo area
export MAINTDIR=$(pwd)/mbl-maint-20190701
export MAINTBRANCH=jij-maint-20190701

$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash $MAINTDIR
cd $MAINTDIR

# Set up new branch
repo start $MAINTBRANCH --all
```

### Check the commits

For each repo, review the commits and cherry-pick those that need to be. Perform any necessary merging on conflicts.
Keep a log of all the commits that could be picked and which ones you didn't pick (and why) and which needed merging/changing.

Some things to watch out for:

* `meta-mbl` - ignore any commits that are changing the `mbl-linked-repositories.conf` for mbl-core
* `mbl-jenkins` - probably ignore any commits that change the `mbl-pipeline`
* `mbl-core` - double-check that the HEAD of the dev branch is being used by `meta-mbl` - meta-mbl should be fixed before performing the maintenance merge otherwise it will break the automatic tagging below.
* remember to make that list of shas!

```
cd $MAINTDIR/armmbed

# Per repo
cd <REPO>
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-diff.bash
git cherry-pick <SHAs>
cd ..
```

### Create the PRs

Create the PRs for each branch:

* Subject: "_target_: sync up with _source_" (e.g.: "master: sync up with warrior-dev");
* Description: put the list of the original commits cherry-picked and the excluded commits if it is the case. You can use the output of the `git-sync-diff.bash` command (from the example above) to make these lists;
* Labels: _sync: dev->master_, _SYNCHRONIZE MERGES_

Only add the original authors of commits if there are problems with the sync, otherwise it is assumed all commits that apply cleanly are ok.

```
# First push all your branches into github
cd $MAINTDIR
repo forall -p -c git push --set-upstream origin $MAINTBRANCH

# Example usage of hub tool to create PRs
# NOTE: Don't use the -m option if you want an opportunity to add PR message interactively
#  - where you include the details of the changes (from the log you kept).
#  If you do use the -m option - please remember to update the PRs with a description/comment
#  See https://hub.github.com/hub-pull-request.1.html for option information
cd armmbed
for i in *; do \
  echo $i; \
  cd $i; \
  hub pull-request -m "master: sync up with warrior-dev" -r github-reviewer -l "sync: dev->master","SYNCHRONIZE MERGES"; \
  cd ..; \
done
```

### Testing

To enable testing you will need to create and push 3 "TEST COMMITS" on:

* `mbl-manifest` - change `default.xml` entries of mbl-config & meta-mbl to your maintenance branches;
* `meta-mbl` - change `mbl-linked-repositories.conf` setting of 
SRC_URI_OPTIONS_MBL_CORE_REPO to point your maintenance branch of mbl-core rather than master;
* `mbl-jenkins` - change `mbl-pipeline` to point to the maintenance branches for the mbl-jenkins-library revision, paramsBranch, mblManifestBranch, mblToolsBranch & lavaMblBranch (and any future ones!).

Label the 3 PRs for these repositories as _DO NOT MERGE_, as you will need to back out the TEST COMMIT on each before merging to master.

In Jenkins, change the `mbl-master` job to point to your maintenance branch of `mbl-jenkins`

Perform mbl-master builds on jenkins - edit the description/name to state this is a maintenance test rather than a normal master build

### Merging

Get the PRs reviewed and approved.

__Before merging__:

* Drop the last commits (the TEST COMMITS) on `mbl-manifest`, `meta-mbl` & `mbl-jenkins` and force push.
* Remove the _DO NOT MERGE_ label from the PR.
* Get re-approval.

___Never "Squash and merge" the commits in any of these PRs!___

Perform the merging using the __"Rebase and merge"__ option.

Finally, change Jenkins `mbl-master` job to point back to the master branch of `mbl-jenkins`.

### Tagging

After the PRs get merged we need to tag the commits in the source and target branches, so that the next diff operation will work.

The format of tags created by the `git-sync-tag.bash` script:

* In the source branch: _source-branch_to_target-branch_ ;
* In the target branch: _source-branch_into_target-branch_ .

```
cd $MAINTDIR

# NOTE: Do not have any modified files in the repos otherwise this operation will fail;
#       and the repos must be the same ones you created the PRs from and have not been updated
#       (i.e. no repo sync or git fetch/pull operations)
repo forall -c $SCRIPTS/git-sync-tag.bash
```

<a name="release"/>

## Releasing directions

### Release branches

Follow these instructions to create a release branch from the current dev branch.

Set up the tools:

```
mkdir RELWORKDIR ; cd RELWORKDIR
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools -b <dev-branch>
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
```

Create the checkout of all the repos, replacing `mbl-os-x.y` with the version to be released (e.g. `mbl-os-0.9`):

```
export RELVER=mbl-os-x.y
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash --release ${RELVER}.setup
cd ${RELVER}.setup
```

Perform the correct alignment and set up of a pinned release manifest, which can be copied from the last known good
development branch build, and create a release branch for all the repos:

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-manifest.bash pinned-manifest.xml $RELVER
repo start $RELVER --all
cd armmbed
```
Now we need to do the tweaks to the following repos:

* `mbl-manifest` - commit `default.xml` with changes done by manifest script
* `mbl-tools` - edit/commit `maintenance/release.xml` to set the default revision to `mbl-os-x.y` (this is important for the release tagging later!)
* `mbl-jenkins` - edit/commit `mbl-*pipeline` to use `mbl-os-x.y` branches for everything (tools, manifest, lava etc)
* `meta-mbl` - edit/commit `meta-mbl-distro/conf/distro/include/mbl-distro.inc` to set `DISTRO_VERSION` to `mbl-os-x.y.z` (NOTE: `z` version!)

Next you can push all the changes to github (this skips the PR flow for the changes done):

```
repo forall -p -c git push --set-upstream origin $RELVER
```

Now create the Jenkins job to test these new branches.

### Release tagging

This assumes you have created a release branch using the flow above and have it testing on Jenkins.

If you DO NOT already have the environment set up from the release branches, then do the following:

```
mkdir RELWORKDIR ; cd RELWORKDIR
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
export RELVER=mbl-os-x.y
```

With the correct environment, now change the mbl-tools to use the release version you have altered:

```
cd RELWORKDIR
cd mbl-tools
git fetch origin
git checkout $RELVER
cd ..
```

Next get a checkout of all the release branches (the `${RELVER}.setup` directory is not needed anymore):

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash --release $RELVER
cd $RELVER
```

#### Release candidates

For release candidates, we just tag the `mbl-manifest` version containing a pinned manifest called `release.xml`.

Get the `pinned-manifest.xml` from the Jenkins build, rename it to `release.xml` and commit/push it into `mbl-manifest` via the usual github PR process (easiest to do this in a separate check out of mbl-manifest due to the fact that repo checks the commits out rather than branches).

Now you can create a release candidate tag of the form `mbl-os-x.y.z-rcn` - for example `mbl-os-0.7.0-rc1`:

```
export RELTAG="${RELVER}.z"
export RELCAN="${RELTAG}-rcn"
repo sync
cd armmbed/mbl-manifest
git tag $RELCAN
git push origin $RELCAN
cd ../..
```

#### Release tagging

For release tagging we use the information from the `release.xml` at a release candidate tag to then tag all the other repos.

This assumes you have followed the release branching, release tagging set up and release candidate flows above.

First call `git-sync-rc-tag.bash` which uses the candidate tag to get the release manifest.
Then uses the revisions in the manifest to get correct repo versions.
Finally it uses the linked repo settings in `meta-mbl` to get the right linked repo versions:

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-rc-tag.bash $RELCAN
```

Next create the tags and push them:

```
repo forall -c git tag $RELTAG
repo forall -c git push origin $RELTAG
```

<a name="development"/>

## Development Branch directions

### Development branches creation

Follow these instructions to create a development branch from the master branch.

Set up the tools:

```
mkdir DEVWORKDIR ; cd DEVWORKDIR
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools -b master
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
```

Create the checkout of all the repos, replacing `yocto-version-name-dev` with the version to be released (e.g. `warrior-dev`):

```
export DEVBR=yocto-version-name-dev
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash --development ${DEVBR}.setup
cd ${DEVBR}.setup
```

Perform the correct alignment and set up of the default.xml manifest and create the development branch for all the repos:

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-manifest.bash armmbed/mbl-manifest/default.xml $DEVBR
repo start $DEVBR --all
cd armmbed
```

Now we need to do the tweaks to the following repos:

1. `mbl-manifest` - edit/commit `default.xml` with changes done by manifest script.
    1. Change the default revision ( \<default revision="master" sync-j="4"/> line) to `yocto-version-name`
    1. Some layers may not have the `yocto-version-name` branch and in this case for each project add a specific SHA. And as soon as these projects create the `yocto-version-name` branch, remove the custom `revision=` setting from the `default.xml`
2. `mbl-tools` - edit/commit `maintenance/release.xml` to set the default revision to `yocto-version-name-dev`
3. `mbl-jenkins` - edit/commit `mbl-*pipeline` to use `yocto-version-name-dev` branches for everything (tools, manifest, lava etc)

Next you can push all the changes to github (this skips the PR flow for the changes done):

```
repo forall -p -c git push --set-upstream origin $DEVBR
```

Now create the Jenkins job to test these new branches.

Commit message:

Specify command to change the dev branch to release branch

maintenance/README.md, after:

## Purpose

This directory contains the tools necessary to:

* Create release branches
* Tag a set of release branches
* Maintain master by cherry-picking from the dev branch

It does this by containing two repo manifests of all the repositories to be maintained in MBL and using the repo tool to check them out and act on them:

* `maintenance.xml` - for the master maintenance (only on master)
* `release.xml` - for the development branch or release branches

It also contains some helper scripts in `scripts`.

Note: Some of the repositories may not be public at this time, as this process is for internal usage at this time.

### Sections

* [Maintenance Directions](#maintenance)
* [Release Directions](#release)
* [Development Branches Directions](#development)

<a name="maintenance"/>

## Maintenance Directions

Performing a merge of all commits needed from the dev branch into master.

### Set up a maintenance area

Can be done once as a place just to perform all maintenance jobs.

```
mkdir MAINTENANCE
cd MAINTENANCE
# Get the tools on the dev branch - assumed to be the latest versions
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools -b <dev-branch>
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
```

### Start a maintenance job

Set up a new checkout of all the repos we need to maintain, and create a branch for doing the merging.

```
# Get latest tools
cd MAINTENANCE/mbl-tools
git pull
cd ..

# Set up new maintenance repo area
export MAINTDIR=$(pwd)/mbl-maint-20190701
export MAINTBRANCH=jij-maint-20190701

$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash $MAINTDIR
cd $MAINTDIR

# Set up new branch
repo start $MAINTBRANCH --all
```

### Check the commits

For each repo, review the commits and cherry-pick those that need to be. Perform any necessary merging on conflicts.
Keep a log of all the commits that could be picked and which ones you didn't pick (and why) and which needed merging/changing.

Some things to watch out for:

* `meta-mbl` - ignore any commits that are changing the `mbl-linked-repositories.conf` for mbl-core
* `mbl-jenkins` - probably ignore any commits that change the `mbl-pipeline`
* `mbl-core` - double-check that the HEAD of the dev branch is being used by `meta-mbl` - meta-mbl should be fixed before performing the maintenance merge otherwise it will break the automatic tagging below.
* remember to make that list of shas!

```
cd $MAINTDIR/armmbed

# Per repo
cd <REPO>
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-diff.bash
git cherry-pick <SHAs>
cd ..
```

### Create the PRs

Create the PRs for each branch:

* Subject: "_target_: sync up with _source_" (e.g.: "master: sync up with warrior-dev");
* Description: put the list of the original commits cherry-picked and the excluded commits if it is the case. You can use the output of the `git-sync-diff.bash` command (from the example above) to make these lists;
* Labels: _sync: dev->master_, _SYNCHRONIZE MERGES_

Only add the original authors of commits if there are problems with the sync, otherwise it is assumed all commits that apply cleanly are ok.

```
# First push all your branches into github
cd $MAINTDIR
repo forall -p -c git push --set-upstream origin $MAINTBRANCH

# Example usage of hub tool to create PRs
# NOTE: Don't use the -m option if you want an opportunity to add PR message interactively
#  - where you include the details of the changes (from the log you kept).
#  If you do use the -m option - please remember to update the PRs with a description/comment
#  See https://hub.github.com/hub-pull-request.1.html for option information
cd armmbed
for i in *; do \
  echo $i; \
  cd $i; \
  hub pull-request -m "master: sync up with warrior-dev" -r github-reviewer -l "sync: dev->master","SYNCHRONIZE MERGES"; \
  cd ..; \
done
```

### Testing

To enable testing you will need to create and push 3 "TEST COMMITS" on:

* `mbl-manifest` - change `default.xml` entries of mbl-config & meta-mbl to your maintenance branches;
* `meta-mbl` - change `mbl-linked-repositories.conf` setting of 
SRC_URI_OPTIONS_MBL_CORE_REPO to point your maintenance branch of mbl-core rather than master;
* `mbl-jenkins` - change `mbl-pipeline` to point to the maintenance branches for the mbl-jenkins-library revision, paramsBranch, mblManifestBranch, mblToolsBranch & lavaMblBranch (and any future ones!).

Label the 3 PRs for these repositories as _DO NOT MERGE_, as you will need to back out the TEST COMMIT on each before merging to master.

In Jenkins, change the `mbl-master` job to point to your maintenance branch of `mbl-jenkins`

Perform mbl-master builds on jenkins - edit the description/name to state this is a maintenance test rather than a normal master build

### Merging

Get the PRs reviewed and approved.

__Before merging__:

* Drop the last commits (the TEST COMMITS) on `mbl-manifest`, `meta-mbl` & `mbl-jenkins` and force push.
* Remove the _DO NOT MERGE_ label from the PR.
* Get re-approval.

___Never "Squash and merge" the commits in any of these PRs!___

Perform the merging using the __"Rebase and merge"__ option.

Finally, change Jenkins `mbl-master` job to point back to the master branch of `mbl-jenkins`.

### Tagging

After the PRs get merged we need to tag the commits in the source and target branches, so that the next diff operation will work.

The format of tags created by the `git-sync-tag.bash` script:

* In the source branch: _source-branch_to_target-branch_ ;
* In the target branch: _source-branch_into_target-branch_ .

```
cd $MAINTDIR

# NOTE: Do not have any modified files in the repos otherwise this operation will fail;
#       and the repos must be the same ones you created the PRs from and have not been updated
#       (i.e. no repo sync or git fetch/pull operations)
repo forall -c $SCRIPTS/git-sync-tag.bash
```

<a name="release"/>

## Releasing directions

### Release branches

Follow these instructions to create a release branch from the current dev branch (zeus-dev in this case).

Set up the tools:

```
mkdir RELWORKDIR ; cd RELWORKDIR
export DEVBRANCH=zeus-dev
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools -b $DEVBRANCH
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
```

Create the checkout of all the repos, replacing `mbl-os-x.y` with the version to be released (e.g. `mbl-os-0.9`):

```
export RELVER=mbl-os-x.y
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash --release ${RELVER}.setup
cd ${RELVER}.setup
```

Perform the correct alignment and set up of a pinned release manifest, which can be copied from the last known good
development branch build, and create a release branch for all the repos:

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-manifest.bash pinned-manifest.xml $RELVER
repo start $RELVER --all
cd armmbed
```

Now we need to do the tweak in the `meta-mbl` repo: edit `meta-mbl-distro/conf/distro/include/mbl-distro.inc` to set `DISTRO_VERSION` to `mbl-os-x.y.z` (NOTE: `z` version!)

We need to change all the occurences of the current dev branch to the release branch on different repositories.
If we are releasing from `zeus-dev`, run the follow:
```
repo forall armmbed/mbl-tools armmbed/mbl-jenkins armmbed/mbl-jenkins-libraries -p -c find ./ -type f -exec sed -i -e "s/$DEVBRANCH/$RELVER/g" {} \;
```

Once we have done all the changes we need to commit them (this time we include also mbl-manifest!):
```
repo forall armmbed/mbl-manifest armmbed/mbl-tools armmbed/mbl-jenkins armmbed/mbl-jenkins-libraries -p -c git commit -a -m "Change branch from $DEVBRANCH to $RELVER"
```

Next you can push all the changes to github (this skips the PR flow for the changes done):
```
repo forall -p -c git push --set-upstream origin $RELVER
```

Now create the Jenkins job to test these new branches.

### Release tagging

This assumes you have created a release branch using the flow above and have it testing on Jenkins.

If you DO NOT already have the environment set up from the release branches, then do the following:

```
mkdir RELWORKDIR ; cd RELWORKDIR
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
export RELVER=mbl-os-x.y
```

With the correct environment, now change the mbl-tools to use the release version you have altered:

```
cd RELWORKDIR
cd mbl-tools
git fetch origin
git checkout $RELVER
cd ..
```

Next get a checkout of all the release branches (the `${RELVER}.setup` directory is not needed anymore):

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash --release $RELVER
cd $RELVER
```

#### Release candidates

For release candidates, we just tag the `mbl-manifest` version containing a pinned manifest called `release.xml`.

Get the `pinned-manifest.xml` from the Jenkins build, rename it to `release.xml` and commit/push it into `mbl-manifest` via the usual github PR process (easiest to do this in a separate check out of mbl-manifest due to the fact that repo checks the commits out rather than branches).

Now you can create a release candidate tag of the form `mbl-os-x.y.z-rcn` - for example `mbl-os-0.7.0-rc1`:

```
export RELTAG="${RELVER}.z"
export RELCAN="${RELTAG}-rcn"
repo sync
cd armmbed/mbl-manifest
git tag $RELCAN
git push origin $RELCAN
cd ../..
```

#### Release tagging

For release tagging we use the information from the `release.xml` at a release candidate tag to then tag all the other repos.

This assumes you have followed the release branching, release tagging set up and release candidate flows above.

First call `git-sync-rc-tag.bash` which uses the candidate tag to get the release manifest.
Then uses the revisions in the manifest to get correct repo versions.
Finally it uses the linked repo settings in `meta-mbl` to get the right linked repo versions:

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-rc-tag.bash $RELCAN
```

Next create the tags and push them:

```
repo forall -c git tag $RELTAG
repo forall -c git push origin $RELTAG
```

<a name="development"/>

## Development Branch directions

### Development branches creation

Follow these instructions to create a development branch from the master branch.

Set up the tools:

```
mkdir DEVWORKDIR ; cd DEVWORKDIR
git clone git@github.com:ARMmbed/mbl-tools -b master
export SCRIPTS=$(pwd)/mbl-tools/maintenance/scripts
```

Create the checkout of all the repos, replacing `yocto-version-name-dev` with the version to be released (e.g. `warrior-dev`):

```
export DEVBR=yocto-version-name-dev
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-start.bash --development ${DEVBR}.setup
cd ${DEVBR}.setup
```

Perform the correct alignment and set up of the default.xml manifest and create the development branch for all the repos:

```
$SCRIPTS/git-sync-manifest.bash armmbed/mbl-manifest/default.xml $DEVBR
repo start $DEVBR --all
cd armmbed
```

Now we need to do the tweaks to the following repos:

1. `mbl-manifest` - edit/commit `default.xml` with changes done by manifest script.
    1. Change the default revision ( \<default revision="master" sync-j="4"/> line) to `yocto-version-name`
    1. Some layers may not have the `yocto-version-name` branch and in this case for each project add a specific SHA. And as soon as these projects create the `yocto-version-name` branch, remove the custom `revision=` setting from the `default.xml`
2. `mbl-tools` - edit/commit `maintenance/release.xml` to set the default revision to `yocto-version-name-dev`
3. `mbl-jenkins` - edit/commit `mbl-*pipeline` to use `yocto-version-name-dev` branches for everything (tools, manifest, lava etc)

Next you can push all the changes to github (this skips the PR flow for the changes done):

```
repo forall -p -c git push --set-upstream origin $DEVBR
```

Now create the Jenkins job to test these new branches.
